[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: There's no question that the
first time somebody shows you closure it
bends your brain.
The tenth time somebody shows you
closure it's still bending your brain.
So there should be no expectation of
this is your first time to see it.
No expectation that it immediately
just clicks, it takes a while.
But what I would say is this probably
comprises better than 95% of all code
that I write, is in some way shape or form
relying upon an understanding of closure.
So if you're looking for
the next place to go once you feel like
you have kind of a grasp on the mechanics
of for loops and variables or whatever.
The biggest conceptual thing that
you could spend time trying to
understand is closure.
It's the most important.
That's why it was the first book that
I wrote in the series because I wanted
everybody to know if you're looking for
the first thing that you should spend some
time making sure you get, it's closure.
Modules are how I design most of my
software a lot of people are like that.
They design software using this, this is
what we call kind of the module pattern.
And I don't have to think about how it
works anymore because closure is natural
to me now that I've been doing it for
years.
The first time you're doing it
you're having to remember like hey
how's it able to access that name cuz it's
like inside and it still has access, okay.
And you progressively get more and
more of your head around that.
At some point it will be appropriate for
each one of you to go read that
Scope Enclosures book and I cover it
in extreme detail exactly how it works.
>> Speaker 2: Is the reason you call it
closure because that stuff is
closed to the outside world?
Is that why you call it that?
>> Kyle: It's not a name that I invented.
It's a term that was invented
long before I was born.
The etymology of that word as applied to
this concept is that what it is said,
this is just an academic side note,
what it is said is this function speak
because it accesses the variable
name outside of itself.
It is said that speak closes over that
variable and that terminology actually
comes from a branch of mathematics
called lambda calculus,
which I've never taken and
I don't even understand.
[LAUGH] So I not gonna teach
you Lambda calculus but that's
the etymology actually goes all the way
back to the concept of lambda calculus.
As applied to programming,
it's a super super powerful mechanism.
Maybe the most important thing
that ever happened to programming.
I know that sounds like a radical
statement to be making but It's really,
really important.
It just takes some effort.
It's not like a for loop where I can
just show you a for loop and you get it.
You gotta wrap your brain around it,
you gotta try it few times.
>> Speaker 2: Are we doing this because
like in other languages you
can specify things as private?
And here you can't because you can kind of
move stuff, but now with this technique it
keeps you from doing that?
>> Kyle: It is true that JavaScript does
not have a notion of private,
other than using this idea of they
are each step inside of the scope.
Supporting stuff inside of
the function keeps it private.
And there's a design principle
in software engineering called
the principle of least privilege or
the principle of least exposure.
And that design principle says keep
everything private by default and
expose only the minimal
necessary to get the job done,
rather than making
everything always available.
So here what we're saying is there
would be definitely chances for
me to have to expose both of these.
But I could have a dozen other inner
functions that I don't want you to have
access to, their implementation details,
their private things.
If I don't expose it on the public API,
it's not available.
So it does give us
the mechanics of private
scoping.
>> Speaker 3: So
rather than creating a function first
name you could just return name,
right?
>> Kyle: So the problem is this,
instead of having a function name here,
if I just said name, call, and name.
Because this name is a primitive value,
it's just a string,
if anything was allowed to change
that later on, if I had another thing
like changeName,
>> Kyle: and
that did this.
And that change name was
a method that somebody could
call outside.
>> Speaker 4: Are you trying something
different?
>> Kyle: If I said o.changeName("Marc")
and then I asked what is an o.name,
you would think that it would be Marc but
it's here's no such
thing as pointers here.
So when we made this, it got sort of
a copy of what it was at the time.
So this would still print out Kyle.
So that's the reason why you would want to
use a what's in programming terms
it's called an accessor method.
It's a function that I call to get some
value out, rather than the value itself.
Kind of a getting into
the weeds sort of a detail, but
that's the main reason why I would
have something called a first name
accessor method rather
than the property itself.
If it was never gonna change, then there's
no reason why you wouldn't just show it.
So it would be okay here
we were never gonna let you
change it,
>> Kyle: Yeah?
>> Speaker 5: So we have a few of them
that you started using those
closer to get harder to
test functions as you can access them.
>> Kyle: That's a good question and
there's a really long and
complicated way for
me to answer that question but
I don't want us to get too far off track.
So I will suggest, first of all
I've addressed that in the books,
in the other teachings but let me just
give you a quick glance at that topic.
It is true that if you hide
something inside of this functions,
if I had ten other functions here that
were not exposed to the outside world.
They're not exposed and
therefore they're not testable.
Some people think that the term unit
testing, that's the most common term for
all people test stuff,
some people think that unit testing
means everything has to be tested.
And for them module design is kind of
a negative because it looks like there's
a bunch of stuff that I can't test.
And there have been new patterns and
techniques that have been invented
to try to deal with that problem.
The most notable of which is
called dependency injection,
where I can do this sort of weird,
pass some stuff in and
have it sort of magically access stuff or
whatever.
It's like trying to do contortions
while playing the game Twister.
Like they wanna have access to it and
they don't.
So they make this backdoor that
they get access to it or whatever.
I think that's my personal opinion,
all that stuff is nonsense.
There is absolutely no point to any of
those contortions because I define unit
testing in a much more reasonable fashion,
in my opinion.
Which is that a unit is not just
any function that I wanna test.
A unit is the smallest
indivisible piece of code
that is used the way I'm gonna
use it in my real application.
So let's imagine a module that
has 100 inner functions and
just one public API method.
>> Kyle: In my definition,
the unit test only tests
the one public API.
And all the internal stuff is
intentionally untested implementation
detail.
You're not supposed to test
implementation detail.
That's supposed to let you abstract the
implementation details and refactor and
not have it break all your tests.
So my definition comes from the outside
rather than from the inside, and
there's a term for that by the way.
The term is whether you prefer
what's called black box testing,
which is I test from the outside having no
knowledge of the inside versus white box
testing which is I test having
full knowledge of the inside.
So my preference, when I do unit tests,
is to test with the black box methodology
test from the outside in
rather than the inside out.
That's a 50,000 foot view of a really,
really long complex
conversation that hopefully at least gets
a couple of answers to that question.
Let's scroll back up and see in this other
questions if I missed other questions.
>> Speaker 5: I think a lot of people
are asking for
a real world example of using the stuff.
>> Kyle: So modules
are the answer to that question,
everything that we design is a module.
Let's imagine you are designing
a login page for your application.
And there's an object that references the
user and it has internal properties like
their username and their password and
their user ID and stuff.
And on the outside, you have a public API,
like is user logged in and
it just tells you true or false, if
they're logged in or not, that's a module.
We got some private stuff
we got some public stuff
we got methods that we can call we
got inner data, that's a module.
So basically, anywhere that you would
create anything even remotely conceptual
like that, the most natural way
to do that in JavaScript is with
a module.
>> Speaker 6: So,
can you relate it to
something like a class,
in the case of an object-oriented word?
>> Kyle: I
taught an entire class on the topic of why
classes in JavaScript are not correct.
So I can't possibly answer that
question to its fullness either.
I hate to keep saying this but
I got a whole book on it.
[LAUGH] So
I would recommend reading the this and
object prototypes book to get
a fuller answer to that question.
But when you define classes in
a language like JavaScript,
you don't have any notion of
encapsulation your privacy.
The way classes are done in
JavaScript everything's public,
everything is accessible.
And modules have true
encapsulation with true privacy.
So if privacy matters the module
is the much more natural design.
>> Speaker 7: I just want to point out,
you already mentioned this book, the
Eloquent JavaScript book talks about this
in such beautiful language.
>> Kyle: Yes, it does,
it's absolutely true.
I recommended earlier,
I would repeat that,
Eloquent JavaScript a great book to read.
It is a companion to the stuff
we're talking about.
Okay, let's go back here.
>> Kyle: What
kind of applications you have, I hope I've
answered that now basically everything.
He has some questions about
does this come from list.
Yes closures, it's a topic in
lambda calculus that it's first
showed up in computer programming
in the list programming family.
>> Kyle: So to clarify return of
the object, yes this object right here
that I'm returning from line 7 through 10
that object itself represents the public
API, of which there are two properties.
One of them is a method and one of them
here is just a string value property.
But that is the public API for our module.
>> Kyle: When you say private,
you just mean not accessible,
right, or do you mean not visible?
Great question,
not a dumb question at all.
Private means accessible
while running the program.
It does not mean invisible to prying
eyes when they do a view source.
There is no such thing
is that in JavaScript,
all code that runs in a browser
can be seen by a user.
But what we mean by private versus
public is what's accessible from any
given location in your
program can I access
stuff.
>> Kyle: Okay,
now I know especially given some of
the questions, I know that modules
are already starting to push the envelope
for some of you and that's totally okay.
The rest of what we're
going to talk about today,
this was the main thing I
wanted to kind of go on.
So we're going to take about a ten minute
break now to let some of that seep in,
I'll answer if there
are any more questions.
But the whole rest of our
course is no lecture for me,
it's a full exercise with lots of
different tasks and subtasks in it.
And you're gonna go little by little
by little building yourself up.
And along the way, you're gonna get some
practice with this concept of how to
do something with the module.
And I'll hold your hand through it,
but this,
we're gonna apply all of this theory.
So we've got the theory out of the way,
hopefully.
And now we're gonna do
the rest of the training,
we're gonna spend kind of
applying that to an exercise.
So if that if you're already feeling
a little bit like what's going on.
It's okay we'll go through it together,
we'll talk through everything.
But I do encourage you, especially if you
already got some experience with this,
try your hand at the exercises
even if it's confusing.
There's value in the confusion.
I know that's an unusual statement for
a teacher to make, but
there's actually value in the confusion.
There's value in trying something
without fully understanding it and
then layering on your understanding.
Instead of never trying it because
you don't fully understand it yet.